---
layout: post
title: Startup positioning
wip: true
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 01 Sep 2015

If you're learning how to position your startup, you're going to run into two types of resources, both useless.

The first type is books like "The 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing":http://www.amazon.com/The-22-Immutable-Laws-Marketing/dp/0887306667 and "Purple Cow":http://www.amazon.com/Purple-Cow-Transform-Business-Remarkable/dp/159184021X. These books exploit a bug in human psychology that makes us interested in lists and insights. They sell for the same reason that people click on Buzzfeed articles. You feel like you're learning a lot while you're reading them, but after you're done you forget most of the content, and are left with no actionable insights.

The second type is traditional books about the "marketing mix":https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marketing_mix. These books are designed to educate college students in such a way that they can be marginally effective when they're eventually plugged into entry level jobs at large marketing organizations. These books will give you a reasonably good idea about how large marketing campaigns are planned and executed, but the material is so far removed from the needs of startups that it's nearly impossible to translate into specific lessons on startup positioning.

While running "RethinkDB":http://www.rethinkdb.com over the past few years, by trial and error I've arrived at a systematic model that helps me think about positioning. I'll illustrate the model by drawing on examples from the 2016 U.S. presidential election. I picked the presidential election because in politics candidate positioning _is_ the product, which helps eliminate confounding factors when thinking about the problem of positioning. Additionally, the 2016 election is fresh in everyone's mind so it's easy to reason about, and it has especially good examples of well thought out positioning strategy.

h2. The three axis model

foo

h2. Good and evil

foo

h2. Relentless remapping

foo

h2. Introducing a new axis

foo

h2. The hook

One issue to kick things off

h2. Market resonance

foo

h2. Credibility and delivery

foo

